- Inactive buffer
h Buffer is hidden
% Current buffer.
# Alternate buffer.
+ File has been modiffed.

In this case, you see six buffers:
1. The next to last file you were working on, also know as 
   alternate file (# flag). This buffer has been hidden(h
   flag). You were editing file one.c and left the currsor
   on line 1.
2. The active buffer (% flag). This is the file you are editing.
3. An inactive. You want to edit three.c, but you have made no
   changes to it.
4. Another file on the argument list that has not been edited.
5  When you executed a :help command, the Vim editor opened two
   files. The first one of these is called help.txt.
6  This is another help file called editing.txt


Selecting a Buffer
You can select which buffer to use by executing the following command:
  :buffer number

number is the buffer number. If you do not know the number of the buffer,
but you do know the filename, you can use this command:
 :buffer file

The following command splits the window and starts editing the buffer:
 :sbuffer number

If a number is specified, the new window will contain that buffer number.
If no number is present. the current buffer is used. This also takes a 
a filename as an argument. If you are editing the file three.c and execute
the following commnad, for example, you get results seen in Figure 5.9
  :sbuffer one.c


Other buffer-related commands include the following:
  :bnext			Go to the next buffer.
  :count bnext  		Go to the next buffer count times.
  :count sbnext			Shorthand for :split followed by :count bnext
  :count bprevious		Go to previous buffer.If a count it specified,
				go to the count previous buffer.
  :count sbprevious		Shorthand for :split and :count bprevious.
  :count bNext			Alias for :bprevious.
  :count sbNext			Alias for :sbprevious.
  :blast			Go to the last buffer in the list.
  :sblast			Shorthand for :split and :blast.
  :brewind			Go to the first buffer in the list.
  :sbrewind			Shorthand for :split and :rewind.
  :bmodified count		Go to count modified buffer on the list.
  :sbmodified count		Shorthand for :split and :bmodified


